README.md, before:

# secp256k1-py [![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/ludbb/secp256k1-py.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/ludbb/secp256k1-py) [![Coverage Status](https://coveralls.io/repos/ludbb/secp256k1-py/badge.svg?branch=master&service=github)](https://coveralls.io/github/ludbb/secp256k1-py?branch=master)

Python FFI bindings for [libsecp256k1](https://github.com/bitcoin/secp256k1)
(an experimental and optimized C library for EC operations on curve secp256k1).

## Installation

```
pip install secp256k1
```

There are two modes of installation depending on whether you already have
libsecp256k1 installed on your system:


###### Using a system installed libsecp256k1

If the library is already installed it should usually be automatically detected
and used.
However if libsecp256k1 is installed in a non standard location you can use the
environment variables `INCLUDE_DIR` and `LIB_DIR` to point the way:

```
INCLUDE_DIR=/opt/somewhere/include LIB_DIR=/opt/somewhere/lib pip install secp256k1
```


###### Using the bundled libsecp256k1

If on the other hand you don't have libsecp256k1 installed on your system, a
bundled version will be built and used. In this case only the `recovery` module
will be enabled since it's the only one not currently considered as
"experimental" by the library authors. This can be overridden by setting the
`SECP_BUNDLED_EXPERIMENTAL` environment variable:

```
SECP_BUNDLED_EXPERIMENTAL=1 pip install secp256k1
```

For the bundled version to compile successfully you need to have a C compiler
as well as the development headers for `libffi` and `libgmp` installed.

On Debian / Ubuntu for example the necessary packages are:

* `build-essential`
* `automake`
* `pkg-config`
* `libtool`
* `libffi-dev`
* `libgmp-dev`

On OS X the necessary homebrew packages are:

* `automake`
* `pkg-config`
* `libffi`
* `gmp`


## Command line usage

###### Generate a private key and show the corresponding public key

```
$ python -m secp256k1 privkey -p

a1455c78a922c52f391c5784f8ca1457367fa57f9d7a74fdab7d2c90ca05c02e
Public key: 02477ce3b986ab14d123d6c4167b085f4d08c1569963a0201b2ffc7d9d6086d2f3
```

###### Sign a message

```
$ python -m secp256k1 sign \
	-k a1455c78a922c52f391c5784f8ca1457367fa57f9d7a74fdab7d2c90ca05c02e \
	-m hello

3045022100a71d86190354d64e5b3eb2bd656313422cdf7def69bf3669cdbfd09a9162c96e0220713b81f3440bff0b639d2f29b2c48494b812fa89b754b7b6cdc9eaa8027cf369
```

###### Check signature

```
$ python -m secp256k1 checksig \
	-p 02477ce3b986ab14d123d6c4167b085f4d08c1569963a0201b2ffc7d9d6086d2f3 \
	-m hello \
	-s 3045022100a71d86190354d64e5b3eb2bd656313422cdf7def69bf3669cdbfd09a9162c96e0220713b81f3440bff0b639d2f29b2c48494b812fa89b754b7b6cdc9eaa8027cf369

True
```

###### Generate a signature that allows recovering the public key

```
$ python -m secp256k1 signrec \
	-k a1455c78a922c52f391c5784f8ca1457367fa57f9d7a74fdab7d2c90ca05c02e \
	-m hello

515fe95d0780b11633f3352deb064f1517d58f295a99131e9389da8bfacd64422513d0cd4e18a58d9f4873b592afe54cf63e8f294351d1e612c8a297b5255079 1
```

###### Recover public key

```
$ python -m secp256k1 recpub \
	-s 515fe95d0780b11633f3352deb064f1517d58f295a99131e9389da8bfacd64422513d0cd4e18a58d9f4873b592afe54cf63e8f294351d1e612c8a297b5255079 \
	-i 1 \
	-m hello

Public key: 02477ce3b986ab14d123d6c4167b085f4d08c1569963a0201b2ffc7d9d6086d2f3
```


It is easier to get started with command line, but it is more common to use this as a library. For that, check the next sections.


## API

#### class `secp256k1.PrivateKey(privkey, raw, flags)`

The `PrivateKey` class loads or creates a private key by obtaining 32 bytes from urandom and operates over it.

##### Instantiation parameters

- `privkey=None` - generate a new private key if None, otherwise load a private key.
- `raw=True` - if `True`, it is assumed that `privkey` is just a sequence of bytes, otherwise it is assumed that it is in the DER format. This is not used when `privkey` is not specified.
- `flags=secp256k1.ALL_FLAGS` - see Constants.

##### Methods and instance attributes

- `pubkey`: an instance of `secp256k1.PublicKey`.
- `private_key`: raw bytes for the private key.

- `set_raw_privkey(privkey)`<br/>
update the `private_key` for this instance with the bytes specified by `privkey`. If `privkey` is invalid, an Exception is raised. The `pubkey` is also updated based on the new private key.

- `serialize()` -> bytes<br/>
convert the raw bytes present in `private key` to a hexadecimal string.

- `deserialize(privkey_ser)` -> bytes<br/>
convert from a hexadecimal string to raw bytes and update the `pubkey` and `private_key` for this instance.

- `tweak_add(scalar)` -> bytes<br/>
tweak the current private key by adding a 32 byte scalar to it and return a new raw private key composed of 32 bytes.

- `tweak_mul(scalar)` -> bytes<br/>
tweak the current private key by multiplying it by a 32 byte scalar and return a new raw private key composed of 32 bytes.

- `ecdsa_sign(msg, raw=False, digest=hashlib.sha256)` -> internal object<br/>
by default, create an ECDSA-SHA256 signature from the bytes in `msg`. If `raw` is True, then the `digest` function is not applied over `msg`, otherwise the `digest` must produce 256 bits or an `Exception` will be raised.<br/><br/>
The returned object is a structure from the C lib. If you want to store it (on a disk or similar), use `ecdsa_serialize` and later on use `ecdsa_deserialize` when loading.

- `ecdsa_sign_recoverable(msg, raw=False, digest=hashlib.sha256)` -> internal object<br/>
create a recoverable ECDSA signature. See `ecdsa_sign` for parameters description.

> NOTE: `ecdsa_sign_recoverable` can only be used if the `secp256k1` C library is compiled with support for it. If there is no support, an Exception will be raised when calling it.

- `schnorr_sign(msg, raw=False, digest=hashlib.sha256)` -> bytes<br/>
create a signature using a custom EC-Schnorr-SHA256 construction. It
produces non-malleable 64-byte signatures which support public key recovery
batch validation, and multiparty signing. `msg`, `raw`, and `digest` are used as described in `ecdsa_sign`.

- `schnorr_generate_nonce_pair(msg, raw=False, digest=hashlib.sha256)` -> (internal object, internal object)<br/>
generate a nonce pair deterministically for use with `schnorr_partial_sign`. `msg`, `raw`, and `digest` are used as described in `ecdsa_sign`.

- `schnorr_partial_sign(msg, privnonce, pubnonce_others, raw=False, digest=hashlib.sha256)` -> bytes<br/>
produce a partial Schnorr signature, which can be combined using `schnorr_partial_combine` to end up with a full signature that is verifiable using `PublicKey.schnorr_verify`. `privnonce` is the second item in the tuple returned by `schnorr_generate_nonce_pair`, `pubnonce_others` represent the combined public nonces excluding the one associated to this `privnonce`. `msg`, `raw`, and `digest` are used as described in `ecdsa_sign`.<br/><br/>
To combine pubnonces, use `PublicKey.combine`.<br/><br/>
Do not pass the pubnonce produced for the respective privnonce; combine the pubnonces from other signers and pass that instead.


#### class `secp256k1.PublicKey(pubkey, raw, flags)`

The `PublicKey` class loads an existing public key and operates over it.

##### Instantiation parameters

- `pubkey=None` - do not load a public key if None, otherwise do.
- `raw=False` - if `False`, it is assumed that `pubkey` has gone through `PublicKey.deserialize` already, otherwise it must be specified as bytes.
- `flags=secp256k1.FLAG_VERIFY` - see Constants.

##### Methods and instance attributes

- `public_key`: an internal object representing the public key.

- `serialize(compressed=True)` -> bytes<br/>
convert the `public_key` to bytes. If `compressed` is True, 33 bytes will be produced, otherwise 65 will be.

- `deserialize(pubkey_ser)` -> internal object<br/>
convert the bytes resulting from a previous `serialize` call back to an internal object and update the `public_key` for this instance. The length of `pubkey_ser` determines if it was serialized with `compressed=True` or not. This will raise an Exception if the size is invalid or if the key is invalid.

- `combine(pubkeys)` -> internal object<br/>
combine multiple public keys (those returned from `PublicKey.deserialize`) and return a public key (which can be serialized as any other regular public key). The `public_key` for this instance is updated to use the resulting combined key. If it is not possible the combine the keys, an Exception is raised.

- `tweak_add(scalar)` -> internal object<br/>
tweak the current public key by adding a 32 byte scalar times the generator to it and return a new PublicKey instance.

- `tweak_mul(scalar)` -> internal object<br/>
tweak the current public key by multiplying it by a 32 byte scalar and return a new PublicKey instance.

- `ecdsa_verify(msg, raw_sig, raw=False, digest=hashlib.sha256)` -> bool<br/>
verify an ECDSA signature and return True if the signature is correct, False otherwise. `raw_sig` is expected to be an object returned from `ecdsa_sign` (or if it was serialized using `ecdsa_serialize`, then first run it through `ecdsa_deserialize`). `msg`, `raw`, and `digest` are used as described in `ecdsa_sign`.

- `schnorr_verify(msg, schnorr_sig, raw=False, digest=hashlib.sha256)` -> bool<br/>
verify a Schnorr signature and return True if the signature is correct, False otherwise. `schnorr_sig` is expected to be the result from either `schnorr_partial_combine` or `schnorr_sign`. `msg`, `raw`, and `digest` are used as described in `ecdsa_sign`.

- `ecdh(scalar)` -> bytes<br/>
compute an EC Diffie-Hellman secret in constant time. The instance `public_key` is used as the public point, and the `scalar` specified must be composed of 32 bytes. It outputs 32 bytes representing the ECDH secret computed. If the `scalar` is invalid, an Exception is raised.

> NOTE: `ecdh` can only be used if the `secp256k1` C library is compiled with support for it. If there is no support, an Exception will be raised when calling it.


#### class `secp256k1.ECDSA`

The `ECDSA` class is intended to be used as a mix in. Its methods can be accessed from any `secp256k1.PrivateKey` or `secp256k1.PublicKey` instances.

##### Methods

- `ecdsa_serialize(raw_sig)` -> bytes<br/>
convert the result from `ecdsa_sign` to DER.

- `ecdsa_deserialie(ser_sig)` -> internal object<br/>
convert DER bytes to an internal object.

- `ecdsa_serialize_compact(raw_sig)` -> bytes<br/>
convert the result from `ecdsa_sign` to a compact serialization of 64 bytes.

- `ecdsa_deserialize_compact(ser_sig)` -> internal object<br/>
convert a compact serialization of 64 bytes to an internal object.

- `ecdsa_signature_normalize(raw_sig, check_only=False)` -> (bool, internal object | None)<br/>
check and optionally convert a signature to a normalized lower-S form. If `check_only` is True then the normalized signature is not returned.<br/><br/>
This function always return a tuple containing a boolean (True if not previously normalized or False if signature was already normalized), and the normalized signature. When `check_only` is True, the normalized signature returned is always None.

- `ecdsa_recover(msg, recover_sig, raw=False, digest=hashlib.sha256)` -> internal object<br/>
recover an ECDSA public key from a signature generated by `ecdsa_sign_recoverable`. `recover_sig` is expected to be an object returned from `ecdsa_sign_recoverable` (or if it was serialized using `ecdsa_recoverable_serialize`, then first run it through `ecdsa_recoverable_deserialize`). `msg`, `raw`, and `digest` are used as described in `ecdsa_sign`.<br/><br/>
In order to call `ecdsa_recover` from a `PublicKey` instance, it's necessary to create the instance by settings `flags` to `ALL_FLAGS`: `secp256k1.PublicKey(..., flags=secp256k1.ALL_FLAGS)`.

- `ecdsa_recoverable_serialize(recover_sig)` -> (bytes, int)<br/>
convert the result from `ecdsa_sign_recoverable` to a tuple composed of 65 bytesand an integer denominated as recovery id.

- `ecdsa_recoverable_deserialize(ser_sig, rec_id)`-> internal object<br/>
convert the result from `ecdsa_recoverable_serialize` back to an internal object that can be used by `ecdsa_recover`.

- `ecdsa_recoverable_convert(recover_sig)` -> internal object<br/>
convert a recoverable signature to a normal signature, i.e. one that can be used by `ecdsa_serialize` and related methods.

> NOTE: `ecdsa_recover*` can only be used if the `secp256k1` C library is compiled with support for it. If there is no support, an Exception will be raised when calling any of them.


#### class `secp256k1.Schnorr`

The `Schnorr` class is intended to be used as a mix in. Its methods can be accessed from any `secp256k1.PrivateKey` or `secp256k1.PublicKey` instances.

##### Methods

- `schnorr_recover(msg, schnorr_sig, raw=False, digest=hashlib.sha256)` -> internal object<br/>
recover and return a public key from a Schnorr signature. `schnorr_sig` is expected to be the result from `schnorr_partial_combine` or `schnorr_sign`. `msg`, `raw`, and `digest` are used as described in `ecdsa_sign`.

- `schnorr_partial_combine(schnorr_sigs)` -> bytes<br/>
combine multiple Schnorr partial signatures. `raw_sigs` is expected to be a list (or similar iterable) of signatures resulting from `PrivateKey.schnorr_partial_sign`. If the signatures cannot be combined, an Exception is raised.

> NOTE: `schnorr_*` can only be used if the `secp256k1` C library is compiled with support for it. If there is no support, an Exception will be raised when calling any of them.


#### Constants

##### `secp256k1.FLAG_SIGN`
##### `secp256k1.FLAG_VERIFY`
##### `secp256k1.ALL_FLAGS`

`ALL_FLAGS` combines `FLAG_SIGN` and `FLAG_VERIFY` using bitwise OR.

These flags are used during context creation (undocumented here) and affect which parts of the context are initialized in the C library. In these bindings, some calls are disabled depending on the active flags but this should not be noticeable unless you are manually specifying flags.



## Example

```python
from secp256k1 import PrivateKey, PublicKey

privkey = PrivateKey()
privkey_der = privkey.serialize()
assert privkey.deserialize(privkey_der) == privkey.private_key

sig = privkey.ecdsa_sign(b'hello')
verified = privkey.pubkey.ecdsa_verify(b'hello', sig)
assert verified

sig_der = privkey.ecdsa_serialize(sig)
sig2 = privkey.ecdsa_deserialize(sig_der)
vrf2 = privkey.pubkey.ecdsa_verify(b'hello', sig2)
assert vrf2

pubkey = privkey.pubkey
pub = pubkey.serialize()

pubkey2 = PublicKey(pub, raw=True)
assert pubkey2.serialize() == pub
assert pubkey2.ecdsa_verify(b'hello', sig)
```

```python
from secp256k1 import PrivateKey

key = '31a84594060e103f5a63eb742bd46cf5f5900d8406e2726dedfc61c7cf43ebad'
msg = '9e5755ec2f328cc8635a55415d0e9a09c2b6f2c9b0343c945fbbfe08247a4cbe'
sig = '30440220132382ca59240c2e14ee7ff61d90fc63276325f4cbe8169fc53ade4a407c2fc802204d86fbe3bde6975dd5a91fdc95ad6544dcdf0dab206f02224ce7e2b151bd82ab'

privkey = PrivateKey(bytes(bytearray.fromhex(key)), raw=True)
sig_check = privkey.ecdsa_sign(bytes(bytearray.fromhex(msg)), raw=True)
sig_ser = privkey.ecdsa_serialize(sig_check)

assert sig_ser == bytes(bytearray.fromhex(sig))
```

```python
from secp256k1 import PrivateKey

key = '7ccca75d019dbae79ac4266501578684ee64eeb3c9212105f7a3bdc0ddb0f27e'
pub_compressed = '03e9a06e539d6bf5cf1ca5c41b59121fa3df07a338322405a312c67b6349a707e9'
pub_uncompressed = '04e9a06e539d6bf5cf1ca5c41b59121fa3df07a338322405a312c67b6349a707e94c181c5fe89306493dd5677143a329065606740ee58b873e01642228a09ecf9d'

privkey = PrivateKey(bytes(bytearray.fromhex(key)))
pubkey_ser = privkey.pubkey.serialize()
pubkey_ser_uncompressed = privkey.pubkey.serialize(compressed=False)

assert pubkey_ser == bytes(bytearray.fromhex(pub_compressed))
assert pubkey_ser_uncompressed == bytes(bytearray.fromhex(pub_uncompressed))
```


## Technical details about the bundled libsecp256k1

The bundling of libsecp256k1 is handled by the various setup.py build phases:

- During 'sdist':
  If the directory `libsecp256k1` doesn't exist in the
  source directory it is downloaded from the location specified
  by the `LIB_TARBALL_URL` constant in `setup.py` and extracted into
  a directory called `libsecp256k1`

  To upgrade to a newer version of the bundled libsecp256k1 source
  simply delete the `libsecp256k1` directory and update the
  `LIB_TARBALL_URL` to point to a newer commit.

- During 'install':
  If an existing (system) installation of libsecp256k1 is found
  (either in the default library locations or in the location pointed
  to by the environment variable `LIB_DIR`) it is used as before.

  Due to the way the way cffi modules are implemented it is necessary
  to perform this detection in the cffi build module
  `_cffi_build/build.py` as well as in `setup.py`. For that reason
  some utility functions have been moved into a `setup_support.py`
  module which is imported from both.

  If however no existing installation can be found the bundled
  source code is used to build a library locally that will be
  statically linked into the CFFI extension.

  By default only the `recovery` module will be enabled in this bundled
  version as it is the only one not considered to be 'experimental' by
  the libsecp256k1 authors. It is possible to override this and enable
  all modules by setting the environment variable
  `SECP_BUNDLED_EXPERIMENTAL`.

Commit message:

Automatic PyPI packaging via Travis-CI
This commit enables automatic packaging of PyPI source and binary (wheel)
packages through Travis-CI.

README.md, after:

# secp256k1-py [![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/ludbb/secp256k1-py.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/ludbb/secp256k1-py) [![Coverage Status](https://coveralls.io/repos/ludbb/secp256k1-py/badge.svg?branch=master&service=github)](https://coveralls.io/github/ludbb/secp256k1-py?branch=master)

Python FFI bindings for [libsecp256k1](https://github.com/bitcoin/secp256k1)
(an experimental and optimized C library for EC operations on curve secp256k1).

## Installation

```
pip install secp256k1
```

### Precompiled binary packages (wheels)

Precompiled binary "wheels" are available for Python 2.7, 3.4 and 3.5 on
macOS and Linux. To take advantage of those you need to use pip >= 8.1.0
and have `libffi` installed through your system's package manager.

In case you don't want to use the binary packages you can prevent pip from
using them with the following command:

```
pip install --no-binary secp256k1
```


### Installation with compilation

If you either can't or don't want to use the binary package options described
above read on to learn what is needed to install the source pacakge.

There are two modes of installation depending on whether you already have
libsecp256k1 installed on your system:


###### Using a system installed libsecp256k1

If the library is already installed it should usually be automatically detected
and used.
However if libsecp256k1 is installed in a non standard location you can use the
environment variables `INCLUDE_DIR` and `LIB_DIR` to point the way:

```
INCLUDE_DIR=/opt/somewhere/include LIB_DIR=/opt/somewhere/lib pip install --no-binary secp256k1
```


###### Using the bundled libsecp256k1

If on the other hand you don't have libsecp256k1 installed on your system, a
bundled version will be built and used. In this case only the `recovery` module
will be enabled since it's the only one not currently considered as
"experimental" by the library authors. This can be overridden by setting the
`SECP_BUNDLED_EXPERIMENTAL` environment variable:

```
SECP_BUNDLED_EXPERIMENTAL=1 pip install --no-binary secp256k1
```

For the bundled version to compile successfully you need to have a C compiler
as well as the development headers for `libffi` and `libgmp` installed.

On Debian / Ubuntu for example the necessary packages are:

* `build-essential`
* `automake`
* `pkg-config`
* `libtool`
* `libffi-dev`
* `libgmp-dev`

On OS X the necessary homebrew packages are:

* `automake`
* `pkg-config`
* `libtool`
* `libffi`
* `gmp`


## Command line usage

###### Generate a private key and show the corresponding public key

```
$ python -m secp256k1 privkey -p

a1455c78a922c52f391c5784f8ca1457367fa57f9d7a74fdab7d2c90ca05c02e
Public key: 02477ce3b986ab14d123d6c4167b085f4d08c1569963a0201b2ffc7d9d6086d2f3
```

###### Sign a message

```
$ python -m secp256k1 sign \
	-k a1455c78a922c52f391c5784f8ca1457367fa57f9d7a74fdab7d2c90ca05c02e \
	-m hello

3045022100a71d86190354d64e5b3eb2bd656313422cdf7def69bf3669cdbfd09a9162c96e0220713b81f3440bff0b639d2f29b2c48494b812fa89b754b7b6cdc9eaa8027cf369
```

###### Check signature

```
$ python -m secp256k1 checksig \
	-p 02477ce3b986ab14d123d6c4167b085f4d08c1569963a0201b2ffc7d9d6086d2f3 \
	-m hello \
	-s 3045022100a71d86190354d64e5b3eb2bd656313422cdf7def69bf3669cdbfd09a9162c96e0220713b81f3440bff0b639d2f29b2c48494b812fa89b754b7b6cdc9eaa8027cf369

True
```

###### Generate a signature that allows recovering the public key

```
$ python -m secp256k1 signrec \
	-k a1455c78a922c52f391c5784f8ca1457367fa57f9d7a74fdab7d2c90ca05c02e \
	-m hello

515fe95d0780b11633f3352deb064f1517d58f295a99131e9389da8bfacd64422513d0cd4e18a58d9f4873b592afe54cf63e8f294351d1e612c8a297b5255079 1
```

###### Recover public key

```
$ python -m secp256k1 recpub \
	-s 515fe95d0780b11633f3352deb064f1517d58f295a99131e9389da8bfacd64422513d0cd4e18a58d9f4873b592afe54cf63e8f294351d1e612c8a297b5255079 \
	-i 1 \
	-m hello

Public key: 02477ce3b986ab14d123d6c4167b085f4d08c1569963a0201b2ffc7d9d6086d2f3
```


It is easier to get started with command line, but it is more common to use this as a library. For that, check the next sections.


## API

#### class `secp256k1.PrivateKey(privkey, raw, flags)`

The `PrivateKey` class loads or creates a private key by obtaining 32 bytes from urandom and operates over it.

##### Instantiation parameters

- `privkey=None` - generate a new private key if None, otherwise load a private key.
- `raw=True` - if `True`, it is assumed that `privkey` is just a sequence of bytes, otherwise it is assumed that it is in the DER format. This is not used when `privkey` is not specified.
- `flags=secp256k1.ALL_FLAGS` - see Constants.

##### Methods and instance attributes

- `pubkey`: an instance of `secp256k1.PublicKey`.
- `private_key`: raw bytes for the private key.

- `set_raw_privkey(privkey)`<br/>
update the `private_key` for this instance with the bytes specified by `privkey`. If `privkey` is invalid, an Exception is raised. The `pubkey` is also updated based on the new private key.

- `serialize()` -> bytes<br/>
convert the raw bytes present in `private key` to a hexadecimal string.

- `deserialize(privkey_ser)` -> bytes<br/>
convert from a hexadecimal string to raw bytes and update the `pubkey` and `private_key` for this instance.

- `tweak_add(scalar)` -> bytes<br/>
tweak the current private key by adding a 32 byte scalar to it and return a new raw private key composed of 32 bytes.

- `tweak_mul(scalar)` -> bytes<br/>
tweak the current private key by multiplying it by a 32 byte scalar and return a new raw private key composed of 32 bytes.

- `ecdsa_sign(msg, raw=False, digest=hashlib.sha256)` -> internal object<br/>
by default, create an ECDSA-SHA256 signature from the bytes in `msg`. If `raw` is True, then the `digest` function is not applied over `msg`, otherwise the `digest` must produce 256 bits or an `Exception` will be raised.<br/><br/>
The returned object is a structure from the C lib. If you want to store it (on a disk or similar), use `ecdsa_serialize` and later on use `ecdsa_deserialize` when loading.

- `ecdsa_sign_recoverable(msg, raw=False, digest=hashlib.sha256)` -> internal object<br/>
create a recoverable ECDSA signature. See `ecdsa_sign` for parameters description.

> NOTE: `ecdsa_sign_recoverable` can only be used if the `secp256k1` C library is compiled with support for it. If there is no support, an Exception will be raised when calling it.

- `schnorr_sign(msg, raw=False, digest=hashlib.sha256)` -> bytes<br/>
create a signature using a custom EC-Schnorr-SHA256 construction. It
produces non-malleable 64-byte signatures which support public key recovery
batch validation, and multiparty signing. `msg`, `raw`, and `digest` are used as described in `ecdsa_sign`.

- `schnorr_generate_nonce_pair(msg, raw=False, digest=hashlib.sha256)` -> (internal object, internal object)<br/>
generate a nonce pair deterministically for use with `schnorr_partial_sign`. `msg`, `raw`, and `digest` are used as described in `ecdsa_sign`.

- `schnorr_partial_sign(msg, privnonce, pubnonce_others, raw=False, digest=hashlib.sha256)` -> bytes<br/>
produce a partial Schnorr signature, which can be combined using `schnorr_partial_combine` to end up with a full signature that is verifiable using `PublicKey.schnorr_verify`. `privnonce` is the second item in the tuple returned by `schnorr_generate_nonce_pair`, `pubnonce_others` represent the combined public nonces excluding the one associated to this `privnonce`. `msg`, `raw`, and `digest` are used as described in `ecdsa_sign`.<br/><br/>
To combine pubnonces, use `PublicKey.combine`.<br/><br/>
Do not pass the pubnonce produced for the respective privnonce; combine the pubnonces from other signers and pass that instead.


#### class `secp256k1.PublicKey(pubkey, raw, flags)`

The `PublicKey` class loads an existing public key and operates over it.

##### Instantiation parameters

- `pubkey=None` - do not load a public key if None, otherwise do.
- `raw=False` - if `False`, it is assumed that `pubkey` has gone through `PublicKey.deserialize` already, otherwise it must be specified as bytes.
- `flags=secp256k1.FLAG_VERIFY` - see Constants.

##### Methods and instance attributes

- `public_key`: an internal object representing the public key.

- `serialize(compressed=True)` -> bytes<br/>
convert the `public_key` to bytes. If `compressed` is True, 33 bytes will be produced, otherwise 65 will be.

- `deserialize(pubkey_ser)` -> internal object<br/>
convert the bytes resulting from a previous `serialize` call back to an internal object and update the `public_key` for this instance. The length of `pubkey_ser` determines if it was serialized with `compressed=True` or not. This will raise an Exception if the size is invalid or if the key is invalid.

- `combine(pubkeys)` -> internal object<br/>
combine multiple public keys (those returned from `PublicKey.deserialize`) and return a public key (which can be serialized as any other regular public key). The `public_key` for this instance is updated to use the resulting combined key. If it is not possible the combine the keys, an Exception is raised.

- `tweak_add(scalar)` -> internal object<br/>
tweak the current public key by adding a 32 byte scalar times the generator to it and return a new PublicKey instance.

- `tweak_mul(scalar)` -> internal object<br/>
tweak the current public key by multiplying it by a 32 byte scalar and return a new PublicKey instance.

- `ecdsa_verify(msg, raw_sig, raw=False, digest=hashlib.sha256)` -> bool<br/>
verify an ECDSA signature and return True if the signature is correct, False otherwise. `raw_sig` is expected to be an object returned from `ecdsa_sign` (or if it was serialized using `ecdsa_serialize`, then first run it through `ecdsa_deserialize`). `msg`, `raw`, and `digest` are used as described in `ecdsa_sign`.

- `schnorr_verify(msg, schnorr_sig, raw=False, digest=hashlib.sha256)` -> bool<br/>
verify a Schnorr signature and return True if the signature is correct, False otherwise. `schnorr_sig` is expected to be the result from either `schnorr_partial_combine` or `schnorr_sign`. `msg`, `raw`, and `digest` are used as described in `ecdsa_sign`.

- `ecdh(scalar)` -> bytes<br/>
compute an EC Diffie-Hellman secret in constant time. The instance `public_key` is used as the public point, and the `scalar` specified must be composed of 32 bytes. It outputs 32 bytes representing the ECDH secret computed. If the `scalar` is invalid, an Exception is raised.

> NOTE: `ecdh` can only be used if the `secp256k1` C library is compiled with support for it. If there is no support, an Exception will be raised when calling it.


#### class `secp256k1.ECDSA`

The `ECDSA` class is intended to be used as a mix in. Its methods can be accessed from any `secp256k1.PrivateKey` or `secp256k1.PublicKey` instances.

##### Methods

- `ecdsa_serialize(raw_sig)` -> bytes<br/>
convert the result from `ecdsa_sign` to DER.

- `ecdsa_deserialie(ser_sig)` -> internal object<br/>
convert DER bytes to an internal object.

- `ecdsa_serialize_compact(raw_sig)` -> bytes<br/>
convert the result from `ecdsa_sign` to a compact serialization of 64 bytes.

- `ecdsa_deserialize_compact(ser_sig)` -> internal object<br/>
convert a compact serialization of 64 bytes to an internal object.

- `ecdsa_signature_normalize(raw_sig, check_only=False)` -> (bool, internal object | None)<br/>
check and optionally convert a signature to a normalized lower-S form. If `check_only` is True then the normalized signature is not returned.<br/><br/>
This function always return a tuple containing a boolean (True if not previously normalized or False if signature was already normalized), and the normalized signature. When `check_only` is True, the normalized signature returned is always None.

- `ecdsa_recover(msg, recover_sig, raw=False, digest=hashlib.sha256)` -> internal object<br/>
recover an ECDSA public key from a signature generated by `ecdsa_sign_recoverable`. `recover_sig` is expected to be an object returned from `ecdsa_sign_recoverable` (or if it was serialized using `ecdsa_recoverable_serialize`, then first run it through `ecdsa_recoverable_deserialize`). `msg`, `raw`, and `digest` are used as described in `ecdsa_sign`.<br/><br/>
In order to call `ecdsa_recover` from a `PublicKey` instance, it's necessary to create the instance by settings `flags` to `ALL_FLAGS`: `secp256k1.PublicKey(..., flags=secp256k1.ALL_FLAGS)`.

- `ecdsa_recoverable_serialize(recover_sig)` -> (bytes, int)<br/>
convert the result from `ecdsa_sign_recoverable` to a tuple composed of 65 bytesand an integer denominated as recovery id.

- `ecdsa_recoverable_deserialize(ser_sig, rec_id)`-> internal object<br/>
convert the result from `ecdsa_recoverable_serialize` back to an internal object that can be used by `ecdsa_recover`.

- `ecdsa_recoverable_convert(recover_sig)` -> internal object<br/>
convert a recoverable signature to a normal signature, i.e. one that can be used by `ecdsa_serialize` and related methods.

> NOTE: `ecdsa_recover*` can only be used if the `secp256k1` C library is compiled with support for it. If there is no support, an Exception will be raised when calling any of them.


#### class `secp256k1.Schnorr`

The `Schnorr` class is intended to be used as a mix in. Its methods can be accessed from any `secp256k1.PrivateKey` or `secp256k1.PublicKey` instances.

##### Methods

- `schnorr_recover(msg, schnorr_sig, raw=False, digest=hashlib.sha256)` -> internal object<br/>
recover and return a public key from a Schnorr signature. `schnorr_sig` is expected to be the result from `schnorr_partial_combine` or `schnorr_sign`. `msg`, `raw`, and `digest` are used as described in `ecdsa_sign`.

- `schnorr_partial_combine(schnorr_sigs)` -> bytes<br/>
combine multiple Schnorr partial signatures. `raw_sigs` is expected to be a list (or similar iterable) of signatures resulting from `PrivateKey.schnorr_partial_sign`. If the signatures cannot be combined, an Exception is raised.

> NOTE: `schnorr_*` can only be used if the `secp256k1` C library is compiled with support for it. If there is no support, an Exception will be raised when calling any of them.


#### Constants

##### `secp256k1.FLAG_SIGN`
##### `secp256k1.FLAG_VERIFY`
##### `secp256k1.ALL_FLAGS`

`ALL_FLAGS` combines `FLAG_SIGN` and `FLAG_VERIFY` using bitwise OR.

These flags are used during context creation (undocumented here) and affect which parts of the context are initialized in the C library. In these bindings, some calls are disabled depending on the active flags but this should not be noticeable unless you are manually specifying flags.



## Example

```python
from secp256k1 import PrivateKey, PublicKey

privkey = PrivateKey()
privkey_der = privkey.serialize()
assert privkey.deserialize(privkey_der) == privkey.private_key

sig = privkey.ecdsa_sign(b'hello')
verified = privkey.pubkey.ecdsa_verify(b'hello', sig)
assert verified

sig_der = privkey.ecdsa_serialize(sig)
sig2 = privkey.ecdsa_deserialize(sig_der)
vrf2 = privkey.pubkey.ecdsa_verify(b'hello', sig2)
assert vrf2

pubkey = privkey.pubkey
pub = pubkey.serialize()

pubkey2 = PublicKey(pub, raw=True)
assert pubkey2.serialize() == pub
assert pubkey2.ecdsa_verify(b'hello', sig)
```

```python
from secp256k1 import PrivateKey

key = '31a84594060e103f5a63eb742bd46cf5f5900d8406e2726dedfc61c7cf43ebad'
msg = '9e5755ec2f328cc8635a55415d0e9a09c2b6f2c9b0343c945fbbfe08247a4cbe'
sig = '30440220132382ca59240c2e14ee7ff61d90fc63276325f4cbe8169fc53ade4a407c2fc802204d86fbe3bde6975dd5a91fdc95ad6544dcdf0dab206f02224ce7e2b151bd82ab'

privkey = PrivateKey(bytes(bytearray.fromhex(key)), raw=True)
sig_check = privkey.ecdsa_sign(bytes(bytearray.fromhex(msg)), raw=True)
sig_ser = privkey.ecdsa_serialize(sig_check)

assert sig_ser == bytes(bytearray.fromhex(sig))
```

```python
from secp256k1 import PrivateKey

key = '7ccca75d019dbae79ac4266501578684ee64eeb3c9212105f7a3bdc0ddb0f27e'
pub_compressed = '03e9a06e539d6bf5cf1ca5c41b59121fa3df07a338322405a312c67b6349a707e9'
pub_uncompressed = '04e9a06e539d6bf5cf1ca5c41b59121fa3df07a338322405a312c67b6349a707e94c181c5fe89306493dd5677143a329065606740ee58b873e01642228a09ecf9d'

privkey = PrivateKey(bytes(bytearray.fromhex(key)))
pubkey_ser = privkey.pubkey.serialize()
pubkey_ser_uncompressed = privkey.pubkey.serialize(compressed=False)

assert pubkey_ser == bytes(bytearray.fromhex(pub_compressed))
assert pubkey_ser_uncompressed == bytes(bytearray.fromhex(pub_uncompressed))
```


## Technical details about the bundled libsecp256k1

The bundling of libsecp256k1 is handled by the various setup.py build phases:

- During 'sdist':
  If the directory `libsecp256k1` doesn't exist in the
  source directory it is downloaded from the location specified
  by the `LIB_TARBALL_URL` constant in `setup.py` and extracted into
  a directory called `libsecp256k1`

  To upgrade to a newer version of the bundled libsecp256k1 source
  simply delete the `libsecp256k1` directory and update the
  `LIB_TARBALL_URL` to point to a newer commit.

- During 'install':
  If an existing (system) installation of libsecp256k1 is found
  (either in the default library locations or in the location pointed
  to by the environment variable `LIB_DIR`) it is used as before.

  Due to the way the way cffi modules are implemented it is necessary
  to perform this detection in the cffi build module
  `_cffi_build/build.py` as well as in `setup.py`. For that reason
  some utility functions have been moved into a `setup_support.py`
  module which is imported from both.

  If however no existing installation can be found the bundled
  source code is used to build a library locally that will be
  statically linked into the CFFI extension.

  By default only the `recovery` module will be enabled in this bundled
  version as it is the only one not considered to be 'experimental' by
  the libsecp256k1 authors. It is possible to override this and enable
  all modules by setting the environment variable
  `SECP_BUNDLED_EXPERIMENTAL`.
